Updates the SSO Docs for Community Edition (#1490)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/userguide/sso-authentication.mdx

title: Single Sign-on Authentication
---

> SigNoz allows users to log in with an **identity provider (IdP)**—such as Google Workspace instead of managing separate SigNoz passwords.  All SSO configuration lives under **Settings → Organization Settings → Authenticated Domains**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SigNoz allows users to log in with an **identity provider (IdP)** such as Google Workspace, instead of managing separate SigNoz passwords.  All SSO configuration lives under **Settings → Organization Settings → Authenticated Domains**.
```

## Google Workspace

> Google Workspace SSO lets members of your email domain access SigNoz with their Google accounts—no extra credentials to remember.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Workspace SSO lets members of your email domain access SigNoz with their Google accounts, eliminating the need for extra credentials.
```

### Availability

- **Plans:** Community Edition, Teams, Enterprise
- **Who can configure:** Google Workspace Super‑Admins or SigNoz Org Owners

### Step‑by‑step setup

#### 1. Create OAuth 2.0 credentials in Google Cloud

1. Visit the [Google Cloud Console → Credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials).
2. Select or create a **project** for SigNoz.
3. Click **Create credentials → OAuth client ID → Web application**.
4. Add an **Authorized redirect URI**:

   ```
   https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/api/v1/complete/google
   ```
5. Click **Create** and note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. You’ll paste these into SigNoz shortly.

#### 2. Add your email domain in SigNoz

1. In SigNoz, go to **Settings → Organization Settings → Authenticated Domains**.
2. Click **Add a Domain**, then enter your company domain, e.g. `your‑domain.com`.

#### 3. Enable Google Authentication

1. After the domain appears in the list, click **Configure SSO**.
2. Choose **Google Authentication**.
3. Paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from Google Cloud.
4. Click **Save Settings**.

#### 4. Enforce SSO

> Back in the domain list, toggle **Enforce SSO**.  From now on, anyone with an email ending in `@your‑domain.com` must sign in via Google.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in the domain list, toggle **Enforce SSO**. From now on, anyone with an email ending in `@your‑domain.com` must sign in via Google.
```

> #### 5.  Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 5.  Test the setup
```

> Open a private/incognito window and visit your SigNoz URL. You should be redirected to Google for login and then back to SigNoz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a private/incognito window and visit your SigNoz URL. You should be redirected to Google for authentication and then back to SigNoz.
```

### Inviting new users

> SSO does not auto‑provision accounts. Org Owners still need to **invite** people from **Settings → Organization Settings → Invite Members**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSO does not auto‑provision accounts. Org Owners still need to **invite** people through **Settings → Organization Settings → Invite Members**.
```

### Troubleshooting

| Symptom                   | Fix                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | *“Authentication failed”* | Check that the redirect URI exactly matches `https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/api/v1/complete/google` in Google Cloud.                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| “Authentication failed” | Check that the redirect URI exactly matches `https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/api/v1/complete/google` in Google Cloud.                   |
```

> | Stuck in a login loop     | Ensure **Enforce SSO** is enabled **and** the user’s email domain matches the authenticated domain.                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Stuck in a login loop     | Ensure **Enforce SSO** is enabled **and** the user’s email domain matches the configured authenticated domain.                               |
```

> | Admin locked out          | Append `?password=Y` to your login URL to temporarily fall back to password auth:`https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/login?password=Y` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Admin locked out          | Append `?password=Y` to your login URL to temporarily use password authentication:`https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/login?password=Y` |
```

title: Single Sign-on Authentication
---

SigNoz allows users to log in with an **identity provider (IdP)**—such as Google Workspace instead of managing separate SigNoz passwords.  All SSO configuration lives under **Settings → Organization Settings → Authenticated Domains**.

## Google Workspace

Google Workspace SSO lets members of your email domain access SigNoz with their Google accounts—no extra credentials to remember.

> ### Availability

Reviewer: **Typographical Error**: There's a typo in 'Super‑Admins' - the dash should be a regular hyphen, not an en-dash character. This could cause rendering issues in some markdown processors.

**Suggested fix:** Change `Super‑Admins` to `Super-Admins`

- **Plans:** Community Edition, Teams, Enterprise

> - **Who can configure:** Google Workspace Super‑Admins or SigNoz Org Owners

Reviewer: **Spacing Issue**: There are inconsistent double line breaks throughout the document. While some spacing is intentional for readability, there are places with unnecessary double breaks.

For example, after 'Step‑by‑step setup' and before section headers, the spacing could be more consistent with markdown best practices.

### Step‑by‑step setup

#### 1. Create OAuth 2.0 credentials in Google Cloud

1. Visit the [Google Cloud Console → Credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials).
2. Select or create a **project** for SigNoz.
3. Click **Create credentials → OAuth client ID → Web application**.

> 4. Add an **Authorized redirect URI**:

Reviewer: **Formatting Inconsistency**: The redirect URI format uses template variable syntax that might be confusing:

```
https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/api/v1/complete/google
```

**Suggestion**: Consider making this clearer by either:
1. Using a more explicit placeholder like `https://your-signoz-domain.com/api/v1/complete/google`
2. Or adding a note explaining that `${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}` should be replaced with the actual SigNoz URL

This same variable is used consistently elsewhere (which is good), but users might not understand what to replace it with.

Author: it should be referred as SIGNOZ_BASEURL only

   ```
   https://${SIGNOZ_BASEURL}/api/v1/complete/google
   ```
5. Click **Create** and note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. You’ll paste these into SigNoz shortly.

> 

Reviewer: **Inconsistent Domain Example**: You're using two different domain formats in the same document:
- Line 32: `your‑domain.com` (with en-dash)
- Line 46: `@your‑domain.com` (with en-dash)

**Consistency Issue**: These should use regular hyphens for better readability and to avoid encoding issues.

**Suggested fix:** Use `your-domain.com` consistently throughout the document.

Author: Rectified

#### 2. Add your email domain in SigNoz

1. In SigNoz, go to **Settings → Organization Settings → Authenticated Domains**.
2. Click **Add a Domain**, then enter your company domain, e.g. `your‑domain.com`.

#### 3. Enable Google Authentication

1. After the domain appears in the list, click **Configure SSO**.
2. Choose **Google Authentication**.
3. Paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** from Google Cloud.
4. Click **Save Settings**.

#### 4. Enforce SSO

Back in the domain list, toggle **Enforce SSO**.  From now on, anyone with an email ending in `@your‑domain.com` must sign in via Google.

#### 5.  Test

Open a private/incognito window and visit your SigNoz URL. You should be redirected to Google for login and then back to SigNoz.

### Inviting new users

> SSO does not auto‑provision accounts. Org Owners still need to **invite** people from **Settings → Organization Settings → Invite Members**.

Reviewer: **Excellent Addition**: The troubleshooting table is a great addition that will help users resolve common issues. The admin lockout recovery URL is particularly valuable.

**Minor suggestion**: Consider adding one more common issue - what to do if users get a "domain not verified" error, which could happen if they try to login before the domain is properly configured.
